Believe it or not, I think the
consistent character problem is a thing
of the past. Guys, this is actually kind
of crazy.
I am super excited to show you how to
take a single photo of your subject,
turn it into a reference sheet, and then
use that as an element for generating
videos or images with consistent
characters. Oh, and we can change their
wardrobe.
I'm definitely going to stain this. I
stumbled upon this technique when making
my movie Discarded Companion. In that
one, I created a character sheet
manually, and then used Nano Banana to
make a more human-looking version of the
same character. Since then, I figured
out a fairly reliable way to generate
character reference sheets using an
image and single prompt. And that prompt
is in the description.
[Music]
Sharing prompts. Now, that's the spirit.
You can also generate these character
sheets without a reference image.
Mr. AI video school, I'd like to ask you
a few questions about consistent
characters.
The magic here is not only the reference
sheet, it's using the reference sheet as
an ingredient with a start image or with
a prompt. That means you need to use a
generator that supports ingredients or
elements or references. There's
different names for it, but the key here
is we're not just doing image to video.
If it's uh sabotage, someone is trying
to force us back home.
Okay, but can you take a moment to
explain exactly how you create the
reference sheets in Nano Banana?
To do that, we'll make sure that we're
on create image.
We'll click the plus sign here to add
our reference image. I'm going to make
sure that I'm on 16 by 9. I think that
works better, and I'm just going to do
two outputs for now. And then we'll
paste the prompt. I'll just leave it
here for a second in case you can't see
the description. You can just pause and
read or screenshot or something. We have
two to choose from. Out of these, I like
that one a little bit better because we
can see him in close-up a little bit
more on these front-facing shots. He's a
little bit bigger in frame there, and I
think that will help for any wide shots
that we're doing. Now, let's create a
start image with this character. We'll
just click add the prompt here. We've
got our reference sheet, we've got our
prompt, and we're going to create an
image.
So, to create a video for this, we're
going to add this to our prompt, our
start image. Then we're also going to
add our reference sheet.
And I know you're thinking, we don't
really need to add the reference sheet,
but I'll show you why that's important
in just a second. I'll put a prompt in
here that's going to have him stand and
then spin completely around, and then
that will give us an idea of how
accurately it's following this reference
sheet. And then I'll make sure that I'm
on ingredients to video.
So, these are our ingredients.
And this is the prompt. Let's see how it
goes.
[Music]
This appears to be sabotage.
So far, we've just looked at a
consistent character, but what if we
want to have two characters in one
scene? To do this, we just need to
upload both reference sheets, and we get
a result that looks like this. Thanks
for agreeing to be on my podcast. It's
my first one from outer space.
Happy to help. It's my first podcast.
Thanks for agreeing to be on my podcast.
It's my first one from outer space.
Happy to help. It's my first podcast.
It's pretty simple. Use Nano Banana to
create a character sheet from a
reference image,
then use that character sheet as an
ingredient or element to generate your
start frames or your video.
And then anytime you generate a video,
even if you already have the start frame
for it, include the character sheet. I'm
so excited to start using this technique
to make my next movie, and I really
think you'll enjoy creating consistent
characters this way, too. Thank you for
watching. Don't forget to subscribe here
and on Substack, where I can send you
emails about AI stuff. I've got more
tutorials, so check them out.
Sharing prompts. Now, that's the spirit.